Getting and Cleaning Data
=========================
The analysis performed with the run_analysis.R script, is based on a human activity recognition using sensors in smartphones data set.(1) The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. 

The run_analysis.R script combines the test and training set of the original data set into one large data set. The activity indication and subject number are also added to allow further analysis. A subset of the columns, indicating the mean and standard deviations of the different variables are selected. As multiple measurements exist for each subject and activity, the means of the different variables are calculated for each subject and reported in the tidy data set.

(1) http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
